Psychology is the science of behavior and mind, embracing all aspects of conscious and unconscious experience as well as thought. It is an academic discipline and a social science which seeks to understand individuals and groups by establishing general principles and researching specific cases.
In this field, a professional practitioner or researcher is called a psychologist and can be classified as a social, behavioral, or cognitive scientist. Psychologists attempt to understand the role of mental functions in individual and social behavior, while also exploring the physiological and biological processes that underlie cognitive functions and behaviors.
Psychologists explore behavior and mental processes, including perception, cognition, attention, emotion (affect), intelligence, phenomenology, motivation (conation), brain functioning, and personality. This extends to interaction between people, such as interpersonal relationships, including psychological resilience, family resilience, and other areas. Psychologists of diverse orientations also consider the unconscious mind. Psychologists employ empirical methods to infer causal and correlational relationships between psychosocial variables. In addition, or in opposition, to employing empirical and deductive methods, some—especially clinical and counseling psychologists—at times rely upon symbolic interpretation and other inductive techniques. Psychology has been described as a "hub science", with psychological findings linking to research and perspectives from the social sciences, natural sciences, medicine, humanities, and philosophy.
While psychological knowledge is often applied to the assessment and treatment of mental health problems, it is also directed towards understanding and solving problems in several spheres of human activity. By many accounts psychology ultimately aims to benefit society. The majority of psychologists are involved in some kind of therapeutic role, practicing in clinical, counseling, or school settings. Many do scientific research on a wide range of topics related to mental processes and behavior, and typically work in university psychology departments or teach in other academic settings (e.g., medical schools, hospitals). Some are employed in industrial and organizational settings, or in other areas such as human development and aging, sports, health, and the media, as well as in forensic investigation and other aspects of law.
Psychoanalysis comprises a method of investigating the mind and interpreting experience; a systematized set of theories about human behavior; and a form of psychotherapy to treat psychological or emotional distress, especially conflict originating in the unconscious mind. This school of thought originated in the 1890s with Austrian medical doctors including Josef Breuer (physician), Alfred Adler (physician), Otto Rank (psychoanalyst), and most prominently Sigmund Freud (neurologist). Freud's psychoanalytic theory was largely based on interpretive methods, introspection and clinical observations. It became very well known, largely because it tackled subjects such as sexuality, repression, and the unconscious. These subjects were largely taboo at the time, and Freud provided a catalyst for their open discussion in polite society. Clinically, Freud helped to pioneer the method of free association and a therapeutic interest in dream interpretation.
Cognitive_behavioral_therapy (CBT) is a common type of talk therapy (psychotherapy). You work with a mental health counselor (psychotherapist or therapist) in a structured way, attending a limited number of sessions. CBT helps you become aware of inaccurate or negative thinking so you can view challenging situations more clearly and respond to them in a more effective way.
CBT can be a very helpful tool in treating mental health disorders, such as depression, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) or an eating disorder. But not everyone who benefits from CBT has a mental health condition. It can be an effective tool to help anyone learn how to better manage stressful life situations.
CBT uses a variety of cognitive and behavioral techniques, but it isn’t defined by its use of these strategies. We do lots of problem solving and we borrow from many psychotherapeutic modalities, including dialectical behavior therapy, acceptance and commitment therapy, Gestalt therapy, compassion focused therapy, mindfulness, solution focused therapy, motivational interviewing, positive psychology, interpersonal psychotherapy, and when it comes to personality disorders, psychodynamic psychotherapy.
One important part of CBT is helping clients change their unhelpful thinking and behavior that lead to enduring improvement in their mood and functioning.
CBT is a psychotherapy that is based on the cognitive model: the way that individuals perceive a situation is more closely connected to their reaction than the situation itself.
Cognitive_behavioral_therapy (CBT) is a psychosocial intervention that is the most widely used evidence-based practice for improving mental health. Guided by empirical research, CBT focuses on the development of personal coping strategies that target solving current problems and changing unhelpful patterns in cognitions (e.g. thoughts, beliefs, and attitudes), behaviors, and emotional regulation. It was originally designed to treat depression, and is now used for a number of mental health conditions.
The CBT model is based on a combination of the basic principles from behavioral and cognitive psychology. It is different from historical approaches to psychotherapy, such as the psychoanalytic approach where the therapist looks for the unconscious meaning behind behaviors and then formulates a diagnosis. Instead, CBT is "problem-focused" and "action-oriented", meaning it is used to treat specific problems related to a diagnosed mental disorder and the therapist's role is to assist the client in finding and practising effective strategies to address the identified goals and decrease symptoms of the disorder CBT is based on the belief that thought distortions and maladaptive behaviors play a role in the development and maintenance of psychological disorders and that symptoms and associated distress can be reduced by teaching new information-processing skills and coping mechanisms
When compared to psychotropic medications, review studies have found CBT-alone to be as effective for treating less severe forms of depression and anxiety, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), tics, substance abuse (with the exception of opioid use disorder), eating disorders, and borderline personality disorder, and it is often recommended in combination with medications for treating other conditions, such as severe obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) and major depressive disorder, opioid addiction, bipolar, and psychotic disorders. In addition, CBT is recommended as the first line of treatment for the majority of psychological disorders in children and adolescents, including aggression and conduct disorder Researchers have found that other bona fide therapeutic interventions were equally effective for treating certain conditions in adults but CBT was found to be superior in treating most disorders Along with interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT), CBT is recommended in treatment guidelines as a psychosocial treatment of choice and CBT and IPT are the only psychosocial interventions that psychiatry residents are mandated to be trained in.
A basic concept in some CBT treatments used in anxiety disorders is in vivo exposure. The term refers to the direct confrontation of feared objects, activities, or situations by a patient. For example, a woman with PTSD who fears the location where she was assaulted may be assisted by her therapist in going to that location and directly confronting those fears. Likewise, a person with social anxiety disorder who fears public speaking may be instructed to directly confront those fears by giving a speech. This "two-factor" model is often credited to O. Hobart Mowrer. Through exposure to the stimulus, this harmful conditioning can be "unlearned" (referred to as extinction and habituation). Studies have provided evidence that when examining animals and humans that glucocorticoids may possibly lead to a more successful extinction learning during exposure therapy. For instance, glucocorticoids can prevent aversive learning episodes from being retrieved and heighten reinforcement of memory traces creating a non-fearful reaction in feared situations. A combination of glucocorticoids and exposure therapy may be a better improved treatment for treating patients with anxiety disorders.
psychology
psychology
psychology
psychology
psychology
psychology
psychology
psychology
psychology
psychology
psychology
psychology
psychology
psychology
psychology
psychology
psychology
psychology
psychology
ADDICTIVE BEHAVIORS AGING COMPUTATIONAL APPROACHES CULTURE DECISION SCIENCE LEARNING AND MEMORY MOTIVATION AND EMOTION NEUROIMAGING PSYCHOPATHOLOGY AND RISK SELF AND IDENTITY SELF-REGULATION AND CONTROL
ADDICTIVE BEHAVIORS COMPUTATIONAL APPROACHES DECISION SCIENCE DEVELOPMENTAL APPROACHES LEARNING AND MEMORY MOTIVATION AND EMOTION NEUROIMAGING PLASTICITY AND CHANGE PSYCHOPATHOLOGY AND RISK SELF-REGULATION AND CONTROL
ADDICTIVE BEHAVIORS SELF AND IDENTITY SELF-REGULATION AND CONTROL STEREOTYPING AND STEREOTYPE THREAT
CULTURE LEARNING AND MEMORY MOTIVATION AND EMOTION PLASTICITY AND CHANGE SELF AND IDENTITY SELF-REGULATION AND CONTROL
AGING CULTURE DECISION SCIENCE DEVELOPMENTAL APPROACHES LEARNING AND MEMORY MOTIVATION AND EMOTION SELF-REGULATION AND CONTROL
COMPUTATIONAL APPROACHES DEVELOPMENTAL APPROACHES LANGUAGE LEARNING AND MEMORY MEANING AND MENTAL REPRESENTATION PERCEPTION REASONING AND PROBLEM SOLVING SOCIAL COGNITION WORDS AND CATEGORIES
DEVELOPMENTAL APPROACHES LEARNING AND MEMORY MOTIVATION AND EMOTION NEUROIMAGING PLASTICITY AND CHANGE PSYCHOPATHOLOGY AND RISK SELF-REGULATION AND CONTROL
ADDICTIVE BEHAVIORS AGING COMPUTATIONAL APPROACHES CULTURE DECISION SCIENCE LEARNING AND MEMORY MOTIVATION AND EMOTION NEUROIMAGING PSYCHOPATHOLOGY AND RISK SELF AND IDENTITY SELF-REGULATION AND CONTROL
ADDICTIVE BEHAVIORS COMPUTATIONAL APPROACHES DECISION SCIENCE DEVELOPMENTAL APPROACHES LEARNING AND MEMORY MOTIVATION AND EMOTION NEUROIMAGING PLASTICITY AND CHANGE PSYCHOPATHOLOGY AND RISK SELF-REGULATION AND CONTROL
AGING DECISION SCIENCE LEARNING AND MEMORY MEANING AND MENTAL REPRESENTATION MOTIVATION AND EMOTION NEUROIMAGING PLASTICITY AND CHANGE SELF-REGULATION AND CONTROL
CULTURE LANGUAGE MEANING AND MENTAL REPRESENTATION WORDS AND CATEGORIES
CULTURE DEVELOPMENTAL APPROACHES EDUCATION INTERVENTIONS MEANING AND MENTAL REPRESENTATION MOTIVATION AND EMOTION PLASTICITY AND CHANGE PSYCHOPATHOLOGY AND RISK SELF AND IDENTITY SELF-REGULATION AND CONTROL STEREOTYPING AND STEREOTYPE THREAT
CULTURE DEVELOPMENTAL APPROACHES EDUCATION INTERVENTIONS LANGUAGE MEANING AND MENTAL REPRESENTATION PLASTICITY AND CHANGE WORDS AND CATEGORIES
What is the interface between sexuality and the law?
Howard S. Adelman	Clinical Psychology	How can schools best address barriers to learning and teaching and re-engage disconnected students?
Avi Adhikari	Behavioral Neuroscience	How do interactions between brain regions modulate fear, anxiety and related behaviors?
Robert Asarnow	Clinical Psychology	
Bruce Baker	Clinical Psychology	What child, family, and school factors contribute to the heightened risk for psychiatric disorders in youth with developmental delays across childhood and adolescence?
Carrie Bearden	Clinical Psychology	What are the risk factors that lead to the development of serious mental illness in adolescence?
Jackson Beatty	Behavioral Neuroscience	
Peter M. Bentler	Quantitative	Can statistics for structural equations be improved? Are model-based reliability coefficients better? Can new Guttman scaling rival Rasch or 2PL IRT? Do bifactor rotations or trinary betas ever fail?
Robert M. Bilder	Clinical Psychology	What are the biological bases of cognitive stability and flexibility, and how do the relevant systems interact to impact working memory, creative cognition, and psychopathology?
James Bisley	Behavioral Neuroscience	Understanding the neuronal mechanisms underlying the cognitive processing of vision
Elizabeth Ligon Bjork	Cognitive Psychology	How can we optimize human learning, retention, and transfer, and how does forgetting play an adaptive role in remembering?
Robert A. Bjork	Cognitive Psychology	How do we learn...and why don’t we understand how we learn?
Jan Blacher	Clinical Psychology	What predicts successful school outcomes for young children with autism spectrum disorder?
H. Tad Blair	Behavioral Neuroscience	How are perceptions, memories, and behaviors encoded by the activity of spiking neurons in the brain?
Aaron P. Blaisdell	Learning and Behavior, Behavioral Neuroscience	What's inside the animal mind?
Susan Bookheimer	Cognitive Psychology	
Julienne Bower	Health Psychology, Clinical Psychology	How do stressful experiences influence the body and physical health, and what types of psychological processes and interventions can protect against those effects?
Thomas N. Bradbury	Clinical Psychology	Why do some relationships thrive where others falter?
Tiffany N. Brannon	Social Psychology	How can positive aspects of identity (e.g., pride, a sense of connection) inform (a) solutions to social disparities experienced by negatively stereotyped groups and (b) processes that facilitate intergroup attitude change?
Dean Buonomano	Behavioral Neuroscience	How does the brain tell time?
Li Cai	Quantitative	Broadly speaking, my methodological research agenda involves the development, integration, and evaluation of innovative latent variable models that have wide-ranging applications in social and behavioral sciences.
Erica Cartmill	Developmental Psychology	
Alan Castel	Cognitive Psychology	How do we remember and why do we forget, and how does this change across the lifespan? How and why do we selectively remember important information, and is this adaptive as we get older?
Denise A. Chavira	Clinical Psychology	
Patricia Cheng	Cognitive Psychology	Why and how do we come to represent the world as we do?
Bruce Chorpita	Clinical Psychology	How can we design systems and treatments that yield the greatest public health impact for children and families?
Andrew Christensen	Clinical Psychology	What interventions are most cost effective in improving couple relationships?
Mark S. Cohen	Cognitive Psychology	
Barry E. Collins	Social Psychology	
Michelle Craske	Clinical Psychology	
Christine Dunkel Schetter	Health Psychology, Social Psychology	What makes for healthy pregnancy, birth and offspring? Is stress related to adverse outcomes and how?
Naomi Eisenberger	Social Psychology	Why do our social relationships have such a profound impact on our emotional and physical health? Why does being rejected feel painful, whereas being connected to others feels so good?
Craig Enders	Quantitative	What is best way to analyze psychological data with missing values?
Chris Evans	Behavioral Neuroscience	
Michael Fanselow	Learning and Behavior, Behavioral Neuroscience	How do we learn, remember and express fear?
Seymour Feshbach	Clinical Psychology	
Iris Firstenberg	Cognitive Psychology	
Craig Fox	Cognitive Psychology	How do people make judgments and decisions under conditions of risk, uncertainty, and ambiguity?
Morton Friedman	Cognitive Psychology	
Andrew J. Fuligni	Developmental Psychology	How do sociocultural experience and biobehavioral development interact during adolescence and young adulthood?
Adriana Galván	Developmental Psychology, Behavioral Neuroscience	What are the neural mechanisms underlying adolescent behavior?
R. Edward Geiselman	Interdisciplinary	Investigative Interviewing of victims and witnesses.
Karen Givvin	Developmental Psychology	How can teachers help students learn math in a way that students can make sense of, remember, and apply?
Noah Goldstein	Social Psychology	
Gerald M. Goodman	Clinical Psychology	Are the key variables for intimate conversation similar to the variables for maintainig close realtionships?, Are uncommon honesty, acceptance, and expressed empathy preictors of durable, satisfying relationships?
Patricia Greenfield	Developmental Psychology	How does culture affect human development?
Carlos V. Grijalva	Behavioral Neuroscience	
William Grisham	Behavioral Neuroscience	How do sex differences in brain and behavior develop? What digital teaching tools are effective in neuroscience education?
Elisheva Gross	Developmental Psychology	How can an understanding of early development improve educational practices, parenting, and policy?
Constance Hammen	Clinical Psychology	What are the risk factors for onset and course of depression, particularly stress, family, interpersonal, and genetic predictors and how they work together?
Martie Haselton	Social Psychology	What can evolutionary thinking tell us about our intimate relationships?
Eric W. Holman	Quantitative	What information about cognitive processes can be gleaned from statistical analyses of large data sources such as classifications and languages?
Keith Holyoak	Cognitive Psychology	What is special about human intelligence?
Yuen J. Huo	Social Psychology	What are the psychological barriers to positive social relations and well-being in diverse groups?
Michael R. Irwin, MD	Behavioral Neuroscience, Health Psychology	What are the psychological, behavioral, and biological factors that contribute to healthy aging, and what strategies can be delivered to reverse adverse biological mechanisms (i.e., inflammation) and prevent chronic diseases of aging?
Alicia Izquierdo	Behavioral Neuroscience, Learning and Behavior	How does the brain compute past experience, or reward history, to contribute to decision making at the present time? How does this change in addiction?
Kerri Johnson	Social Psychology	How do we form first impressions of other people from only a glimpse of their face or body? How are multiple identities integrated to yield a single impression of another person?
Scott Johnson	Developmental Psychology	How do infants construct representations of the physical and social environment?
Jaana Juvonen	Developmental Psychology	How do school contextual factors (e.g., ethnic composition, organizational structure) affect peer relationships and student well-being? What psychosocial benefits are associated with diversity (and for whom)?
Roselinde H. Kaiser	Clinical Psychology, Cognitive Psychology	How is neurocognitive functioning altered in affective disorders such as major depression? Can we use neurocognitive risk markers to predict who will become depressed or to guide effective treatment?
Katherine H. Karlsgodt	Clinical Psychology, Behavioral Neuroscience	What can neuroimaging tell us about differences in brain structure and function in individuals with schizophrenia? How do such differences relate to cognition and neurodevelopment?
Benjamin Karney	Social Psychology	How do intimate relationships succeed or fail?
Danielle Keenan-Miller	Clinical Psychology	What are the most effective practices in clinical supervision?
Phil Kellman	Cognitive Psychology	
Pamela Kennedy	Behavioral Neuroscience	How do drugs of abuse modify brain cells and circuits to support addictive behaviors?
Barbara Knowlton	Behavioral Neuroscience, Cognitive Psychology	How does learning occur in the brain?
Franklin B. Krasne	Behavioral Neuroscience	How do synaptic changes result in learning, as studied in an invertebrate? How are do mammalian fear-learning circuits work, as studied with computational neural models?
Jennifer L. Krull	Quantitative	How can the unique features of multilevel models be used to test new kinds of psychological hypotheses? How well do these models work under the non-ideal conditions found in real-world data?
Anna S. Lau	Clinical Psychology	How well do evidence-based treatments, developed and tested in research settings, work in community mental health settings serving diverse and disadvantaged families and children?
Hakwan Lau (劉克頑)	Cognitive Psychology, Behavioral Neuroscience	What distinguishes conscious and unconscious brain processes?
Steve S. Lee	Clinical Psychology	What factors predict, mediate, and moderate outcomes of children with ADHD and disruptive behavior disorders?
Matthew Lieberman	Social Psychology	Why are our brains wired to be social?
Zili Liu	Cognitive Psychology	Why does the world look the way it is, and with many visual illusions? Why does the percept make sense, from an information processing perspective?
Hongjing Lu	Cognitive Psychology	What are the computational mechanisms underlying human perception and reasoning? How might intelligent machines emulate them?
Donald G. MacKay	Cognitive Psychology	
Neil Malamuth	Interdisciplinary	What are the risk factors that contribute to men's risk for sexual aggression against women and the etiology and mechanisms of such factors?
Vickie M. Mays	Clinical Psychology	
William McCarthy	Health Psychology	How do we mobilize community, social, psychological and biological supports for optimizing individual-level adherence to recommended lifestyle patterns, especially healthy eating, daily physical activity and no drug use?
Dennis J. McGinty	Behavioral Neuroscience	What brain neurons are vulnerable to the effects of sleep fragmentation, and how does this vulnerability affect awake behavior?
Albert Mehrabian	Interdisciplinary	
David J. Miklowitz	Clinical Psychology	What are the roles of family risk and protective processes and family interventions in the course and treatment of bipolar disorder and psychosis?
Gregory A. Miller	Clinical Psychology, Behavioral Neuroscience	How does brain function go awry in schizophrenia, depression, and anxiety, and what cognition, emotion, and brain connectivity phenomena help us understand this?
Thomas R. Minor (1952-2017)		
Martin M. Monti	Cognitive Psychology, Behavioral Neuroscience	(i) How does consciousness emerge from neural activity? (ii) What is the relationship between language and thought?
Hector Myers	Clinical Psychology, Health Psychology	
Keith H. Nuechterlein	Clinical Psychology	What is the nature and role of cognitive deficits in schizophrenia and how can we remediate them to improve the course of this disorder?
Daniel Oppenheimer	Cognitive Psychology	What information do people use when they make judgments and decisions?
Carolyn Parkinson	Social Psychology	How do our brains track and encode information about the structure of our social networks? How does social network position impact cognition and behavior? How do we understand and mentally traverse social, spatial, and temporal distances?
Letitia Anne Peplau	Social Psychology	
Gerardo Ramirez	Developmental Psychology, Cognitive Psychology	How does affect impact performance and learning in education settings?
Bertram H. Raven	Social Psychology	
Lara Ray	Clinical Psychology, Behavioral Neuroscience	How does addiction progress and what treatments best target each stage?
Steven Paul Reise	Quantitative	Do psychological traits apply to all members of a diverse population, or is there important qualitative variation?
Rena Repetti	Clinical Psychology, Health Psychology	How do families respond and adapt to stress?
Dario Ringach	Behavioral Neuroscience	
Jesse Rissman	Cognitive Psychology, Behavioral Neuroscience	How does the brain create and retrieve memories, and how do we regulate these processes to achieve our goals?
Theodore Robles	Health Psychology, Clinical Psychology	How does the quality of our closest relationships (marital and family) affect our health, and what biological mechanisms explain those effects?
Catherine M. Sandhofer	Developmental Psychology	How do children learn words and categories?
Philip Sayegh	Clinical Psychology	How do culture and other factors affect care-seeking, assessment, diagnosis, and treatment adherence in ethnically diverse individuals with neuromedical illnesses? How do infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS and Hepatitis C impact neurocognitive function?
Tara Scanlan	Social Psychology	What creates the psychological commitment to persist in developing one's talent? What are the consequences of developing one's talent?
Stan Schein	Behavioral Neuroscience, Cognitive Psychology	What new kinds of molecular cages -- important in biology (endocytosis, viruses), chemistry (fullerenes), materials science (nanotubes), mathematics (polyhedra) and architecture (space frames) -- can we discover?
David O. Sears	Social Psychology	How do race and ethnicity affect American politics -- both in promoting partisanship among ethnic minorities and in eliciting prejudice from whites?
Ladan Shams	Cognitive Psychology, Behavioral Neuroscience	How does interaction between the senses affect how we perceive the world, ourselves, and how we learn? How can these interactions be used to improve perception and learning?
Jenessa Shapiro	Social Psychology	What concerns arise in intergroup interactions and stereotype-relevant situations? How do these influence interactions and high-stakes performances?
Margaret Shih	Social Psychology	
Alcino Silva	Behavioral Neuroscience, Learning and Behavior	Molecular, cellular, circuit mechanisms of learning and memory
Jennifer Silvers	Developmental Psychology, Social Psychology	How do children and adolescents learn to manage their emotions? What neural mechanisms support effective emotion regulation?
Annette L. Stanton	Health Psychology, Clinical Psychology	
James W. Stigler	Developmental Psychology, Cognitive Psychology	How do people learn mathematics? What kinds of learning environments and teaching methods facilitate learning, and how?
Shelley E. Taylor	Social Psychology, Health Psychology	
James P. Thomas	Cognitive Psychology	
A. Janet Tomiyama	Health Psychology, Social Psychology	Why do we eat?
Yalda T. Uhls	Developmental Psychology	How does traditional and newer media impact the social behavior of preadolescent and adolescents? ​
Kate Wassum	Learning and Behavior, Behavioral Neuroscience	What are the neurochemical mechanisms of motivation and decision making?
Jill M. Waterman	Clinical Psychology	What factors lead to positive outcomes for families adopting children from foster care, and which therapeutic interventions enhance these factors?
Bernard Weiner	Social Psychology	
Nancy Woolf	Behavioral Neuroscience	
Cindy Yee-Bradbury	Clinical Psychology, Behavioral Neuroscience	How do interactions between cognition, emotion, and stress contribute to risk for psychoses and dysfunction in schizophrenia, and do they suggest pathways for intervention?
Alan Yuille	Quantitative	
Dahlia W. Zaidel	Behavioral Neuroscience	
Eran Zaidel	Behavioral Neuroscience	Why and when do we laugh? Why do we enjoy watching movies together with others? What is it like to be conscious? How to design a better brain?
The cultural psychology and marketing lab, led by Dr. Sharon Shavitt, seeks a motivated, curious, and meticulous undergraduate student for the Fall and Spring Semester. Our research focuses on how cultural background influences consumer goals. Students will have an opportunity to participate in all phases of research on this topic, including conducting field studies with consumers in natural settings. During this fall, we will focus both on collecting and on coding data. This will give undergrad students an opportunity to get exposed to research and also develop data coding/analysis skills. Coding may sound difficult, but it is actually fun and not difficult at all. Also, a current graduate research assistant will guide you through it step by step.
Interested in how to optimize children’s motivation and achievement in school. The Center for Parent-Child Studies focuses on the role of parents, teachers, and peers in children’s learning. We are currently recruiting Undergraduate Research Assistants to be part of our team for the Fall of 2017.  We are looking for motivated students who are meticulous, organized, and thoughtful.  Ability to work in the lab longer than one semester is a big plus! Must be willing to commit at least 6 hours a week to the lab. Psych 290 course credit is available.
Interested in teachers’ role in children’s learning? Join our research team in a study to understand how teachers can effectively communicate with parents. The Center for Parent-Child Studies has several positions that involve coding parents’ and teachers’ interactions during parent-teacher conferences. Students must be able to work independently as well as part of a team. Attention to detail is critical. Please email for an application.
Research Assistants will be directly involved in the data collection and recruitment process. This will involve assisting with EEG, ERP, and fNIRs measures as well as scoring and entering data. This is a great opportunity for those who wish to gain research experience before applying to graduate school. This is a volunteer position or credit can be granted for enrolling in PSY 290. 
Are you interested in what babies know about the world?  We are interested in what infants and young toddlers understand about objects, animals, and people. Undergraduate research assistants help us with our research by either experimenting (acting out the scenes for the babies) or observing (live-coding babies' looking behavior).  
Interested in how to optimize children’s motivation and achievement in school. The Center for Parent-Child Studies focuses on the role of parents, teachers, and peers in children’s learning. We are currently recruiting Undergraduate Research Assistants to be part of our team for the Summer of 2017.  We are looking for motivated students who are meticulous, organized, and thoughtful.  Ability to work in the lab longer than the summer is a big plus! Must be willing to commit at least 12 hours a week to the lab. Course credit is available.
The Lifelong Brain and Cognition Lab is seeking undergraduate volunteer/290 research assistants for a variety of opportunities involving studies of executive control, memory, and visual attention processes across the lifespan. These may include experience in subject running, data coding and organization, magnetic resonance imaging, and neuropsychological assessments. If you are interested in learning more about the various projects and how you can apply to be a part of the research process, please contact Caitlin Kienzler.
Are you interested in how infants and children learn how to speak and understand their native languages? In the Language Acquisition Lab, we study how how children identify sound patterns of their language, learn the meaning of new words, and comprehend sentences. Our undergraduate RAs aid in this pursuit by interacting with children and families before and during our studies, coding and transcribing data, testing new study materials, and more. In exchange, you'll have the opportunity to gain valuble research experience and course credit!
Interested in how to math skills develop in children? Join our research team to understand the role of parents in children's motivation and achievement. The Center for Parent-Child Studies is seeking students to be involved in all aspects of research this spring
The YEDI (Youth, Emotion, Development, and Intervention) Lab is looking for undergraduate research assistants to assist with two studies. One study is based on a depression prevention program for adolescents, and the second study is about the development of the brain, thinking, and mood.

Research Assistants will have the opportunity to schedule participants, assist with data entry and cleaning, run families for in-lab visits, and gain experience carrying out study protocols and administering lab tasks, including questionnaires, computer-based tasks of executive functioning, diagnostic interviews, etc.

Research assistants will also have access to resources/advice for graduate programs and other job opportunities from graduate students, lab staff members, and the principal investigator.
